score: 4.5
link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4UQTBp0ZWZM


Examiner: Okay, from here starts the speaking test. This is the speaking test of the International English Language Testing System, taking place in Ross IELTS Academy. The candidate is Birma Marisol Gomez. Candidate's number 0143587. The examiner is Mehnu Shafi, examiner number 443533. Good evening. My name is Mehnu Shafi. Would you please tell me your full name?
Candidate: Hi, my name is, my full name is Birma Marisol Gomez.
Examiner: And what can I call you?
Candidate: Sol.
Examiner: Sol.
Candidate: Sol, only Sol.
Examiner: Only Sol. Okay. So... Good. And can I see your identification?
Candidate: Yes.
Examiner: Thank you very much. Great.
Candidate: Thank you.
Examiner: You're welcome. So, we can now get started with the first part of the exam. In the first part, I will ask you some personal questions.
Candidate: Okay.
Examiner: First, let's talk about your holiday. How do you usually spend your holidays?
Candidate: Uh, in my holidays, sometimes I, I travel in some place in Mexico or or wherever. Um, sometimes I go to USA in San Diego or Los Angeles because I love shopping in USA. Um, sometimes I, I stay only in my home. Uh, I watch movies or read a books.
Examiner: Perfect. And is there anywhere you would particularly like to visit on holidays in the future?
Candidate: Yes. Uh, the last year, um, because uh, COVID, no visit other countries, but, but my dream is to visit London and Turkey and Japan.
Examiner: Perfect. And do you prefer relaxing at home in the evenings or you prefer to go out?
Candidate: Prefer stay at my home. Uh, relaxing, maybe, uh, read a book or watch a movies.
Examiner: Okay, perfect. Great. Now, let's talk about your job. What is your job?
Candidate: My job. I'm a degree in economics and finance. My job is about finance in the Sanmina. Sanmina is a company, American company in Mexico. Um, I in the department to finance.
Examiner: Okay, and do you like your job?
Candidate: Yes, I love my job. I have two jobs. Uh, this and the other job, I'm a professor. And it's my hobby, but my pays my hobby and I love my job.
Examiner: Okay, and what job do you think you will be doing in five years' time?
Candidate: Five years, maybe, uh, teaching, uh, financial education or invest-investments or I don't know, maybe the same, but more... in the place pay more money.
Examiner: Okay, perfect. Now, let's talk about names. Who gave you your name?
Candidate: My... my parents. Uh, my parents gave me my name. My first name is Birma. Birma, uh, have a two part. Birma is because, Vir-Vir is because my father name was Virgilio. Vir is to Virgilio. And my mother name is Maricela. Is the composition to two names of my parents.
Examiner: Okay. And what do your friends call you?
Candidate: Sol.
Examiner: Mhm.
Candidate: Sol.
Examiner: Okay. Thank you very much. Great. We are now done with the first part of the exam, and we can move on to the second part.
Candidate: Okay.
Examiner: So, um, so, in the second part, I will give you a card with a topic, and you will have to talk about this topic for two minutes. But before you do so, you will have one minute to think about what you're going to say, and you can make some notes to help you if you wish. Do you understand?
Candidate: Yeah.
Examiner: Perfect. So, now I'm giving you this, uh, paper and your cue card. So here's the paper to make notes. Here's your cue card and the pen. I would like you to describe a home that you visited but did not want to live in. Now, here you go. You will have one minute to think about the topic. Yeah, and I will let you know once your one minute is over. So, may I start thinking now?
Candidate: Okay.
Examiner: So, now your one minute is over and you can talk about this topic for two minutes, but do not worry if I stop you. So you can start talking about the topic now.
Candidate: Okay. Two years ago, I visited, uh, my aunt, my aunt's house in the beach. Is in the state to Nayarit. It's far far away to Guadalajara, maybe five or six hours. The beach is so wonderful. Uh, um, it's so beautiful the beach in this place, but, uh, the place have a lot of mosquitoes in the after the, uh, 5:00 PM, is-is mosquitoes so little, little, little, little, little. And the weather is so hot, is, um, I don't know what, what say, but is, is terrible. It's terrible. Is, uh, uh, and in the house, in the home of my aunts, uh, the weather is too hot, more than the beach. Um, have a scorpions. Uh, the conditioner doesn't work. Work, doesn't work. I don't know why, but the... the... the only reason because me go to the house, my, my aunt's house is because is the beach, but is terrible, it's terrible. It's hot, is, um, uh, they don't have internet, they don't have, um, anything. No, no have, uh, supermarket. Uh, okay, the food is very good. The food is very good. The beer is very good. It's so cold.
Examiner: Thank you very much. Great. Now your two minutes is over.
Candidate: Thank you.
Examiner: So, if you just hand me that paper and... Thank you so much, and the pen. Great. Okay, Sol. So, in the second part, you talked about a house that you visited but did not like to or did not want to live in. Now, in the third part, I want to ask you some questions related to this topic.
Candidate: Okay.
Examiner: Do people in your country like to visit other people's homes?
Candidate: Yes. Yes, because is, is, is cultural, is so funny, and is the, uh, security, I don't know what you say, but it's so funny.
Examiner: Okay. And how about you? How often do you visit other people?
Candidate: Uh, maybe two weeks ago, two weeks or maybe one, one, twice to month. No more than that.
Examiner: Okay. And, um, in your country, when people visit each other, what do they normally do together?
Candidate: Okay, play game boards or drink some alcohol, maybe beers or tequila or or whatever, water. Uh...
Examiner: Why do you think people do these activities when they gather together?
Candidate: Oh, only because it's funny. It's funny, it is the time to distract, uh, distract or, uh, I don't know what to say, uh, distract the week in the works is to start relax. It's funny.
Examiner: Okay. And how about the gifts? Are gifts necessary when visiting others in your culture?
Candidate: Uh, yes. No gifts but, gifts, sorry, but yes, uh, maybe food or some, something to, uh, give to others. Uh... Uh... give to others. I don't know what you say, "compartir" but it's to the party and...
Examiner: Perfect. Great. And now let's talk about the places that people like to live in your country. Um, so can you tell me a bit about that? What kinds of places, what kind of houses do people in your country would like to live in?
Candidate: Um, in general, the houses are smalls. Maybe three rooms, or one bedroom, the, one bathroom. But the people is nice. It's nice, but my favorite houses is in the beach. In the beach are, the houses are small too. Uh, and I don't know, is... I don't know what you say "calido", but it's not hot, it's calido. It's nice, it's polite. The people is polite. In the houses, in the, in the houses is polite.
Examiner: Okay, so now that you've talked about living in the city and living, uh, maybe near the beach, uh, let me ask you this question. What are the differences between the homes in the city and those in the suburbs?
Candidate: In the suburbs, especially in Guadalajara or Mexico City, uh, all day have a much traffic, uh, the people are, uh, fast all day. Uh, it's a stress in sometimes, not even. But it's so funny, the suburbs, because we have all, all the, um, all, uh, not, some much places to go. In the beach, no, only go to the beach. But it's relaxing, the beaches are funny and wonderful, beautiful and I don't know.
Examiner: Okay, great. Thank you very much. This is the end of the speaking test.

Examiner Feedback: Okay, Sol, now let's see what you did. But before I give you the feedback, uh, you can tell me about your idea, like how was your performance? How was the test? I don't know, maybe it's so bad. I don't know why. Uh, maybe it's because I feel I don't know, English like, like want, but I don't know. It's something you understand, but when you want to talk, when you want to speak English, maybe it's a bit harder. Yes, it's so harder because a lot of words is forgive, I don't know, I don't know what... You forget a lot of words. Yeah. Uh huh. My mind goes blank. Uh huh. My mind is blank and... The structure go. Oh, I see. You just need more practice. So, first I want to give you the feedback based on the different criteria, and then we can talk about your overall band score, okay? Okay. Good. So, uh, first of all, to talk about your fluency and coherence, the first criteria. I can say that, um, what I loved generally in your performance is that you're so energetic. You have the self-confidence, and you are able to keep talking. I mean, even if it is hard for you to produce the language and use the structures and use the words, but you had very good ideas to develop. It clearly shows that if you practice a bit and work on your English and the strategies, you can get better next times and in the future. So about your fluency and coherence, um, as I told you, you were able to maintain the flow of a speech, you were able to talk, even in part two, you ran out of ideas, but you just kept talking until the two minutes was over. And, however, you had some self-correction, you said something then you corrected yourself. You were not sure about the English form of the words or the structure in English, because you are not actually thinking in English. You're thinking in your mother tongue, whatever it is. And then you, you said you're from Mexico, so you speak Spanish. Uh, you were at times thinking in Spanish and not English. And that's why you were just using some structures that were not actually correct in English. And that led to self-correction, self-repetition, and some hesitations, pauses when you were talking to me. I do recommend you to use more connectives as well, and discourse markers. I mean, when you want to give me the answer, you can say, for example, "Well, actually, I think, in my opinion." or some fillers and boosters to be honest, uh, that's a very interesting question, or connectives, for example, you were just using and, so, but, because, just use more, because if you only use these connectives, you cannot expect to get more than five in fluency and coherence. So you can use, for example, "In addition to that," "besides," "however," "even though," "despite something," "unless." So use these words. Okay? Okay. That's about your fluency and coherence. Uh, in part one, you had more hesitations, but in the other parts, you had less hesitations, but generally, you should work on thinking in English, and widening your vocabulary range. Now, to talk about the next criteria, your, uh, lexical resource, your vocabulary. In your vocabulary, I can say that you were able to talk about the unfamiliar and familiar topics. And I could hear some words which were on point, for example, uh, the financial education, the investment, horrible or terrible, so that was a synonym, the scorpion, you knew some animal names. Uh, but I could not see a wide range. There was, how you were using the words was not used flexibly. I mean, and sometimes you didn't know the vocabulary in English and you were searching for words in your speaking. I recommend you to widen your vocabulary range, use some collocations, some idiomatic vocabulary, and paraphrase better. Paraphrase means the use of synonyms. If I say something, don't repeat my words, use some direct synonyms. And now to move on to the third criteria. Um, in the third criteria, grammatical range and accuracy, I believe this is what you should work on more than the other criteria, your grammar. Because, uh, whatever you were saying, it was clear to understand. I could get your point, but you were already making mistakes in most of your sentences, the majority of your sentences. And it was mostly about tenses. If I, if it was in present, you were using past. If it was past, you were using present sometimes, or prepositions, articles like the, a, an, and singular and plural. Okay? For example, I don't know, "people," uh, you were not sure is it singular, is it plural? And so much places, which is so many places. So it's about singular and plural, countable and uncountable. I'm a degree, I have a degree, or because COVID, because of COVID. Because is followed by a sentence. So that's about your grammar. Maybe you can just improve your grammar a bit and make less mistakes. And if you want to get a higher score, use more complex grammatical structures. Yours were all simple. Okay? And the last criteria, your pronunciation. To talk about your pronunciation, you, I mean, I can generally say that your pace of a speech was good. It was not too slow or too fast. And you were trying to use some pronunciation features, you were clear to understand. But sometimes you had, at times you had some intonation problems, how you raise and lower your voice, and lapses in how you pronounce the words. For example, "combination," you didn't pronounce, you pronounced it like as if it was some other word, but it was the word "combination" of some two things. Yeah. So, uh, try to pronounce the words the way they are pronounced in English, because at times the intonation and the rhythm was not English. Okay? And for that, you can listen to some, uh, native speakers, talk to native speakers and try to apply the shadowing technique. I mean, repeat after them the way they do. This can help your pronunciation matter. Okay? Okay. Perfect. Any questions? No, no questions. Thank you. Perfect. You're welcome.