Score: 9
url: https://youtu.be/Nj9xEQZbtYs?si=XHtgNXnXFUMQs0QN


Examiner: Okay, from here starts the speaking test. This is the speaking test of International English Language Testing System, taking place in Ross IELTS Academy. The candidate is Samson Sees, candidate's number 01413277. The examiner is Mehrnoush Khafi, examiner number 443523. Good afternoon. My name is Mehrnoush Khafi. Would you please tell me your full name?
Candidate: Hello. My name is Samson Sees.
Examiner: Mhm. What can I call you?
Candidate: You can call me Samson.
Examiner: Okay, Samson. Great. Can I see your identification, please?
Candidate: Absolutely.
Examiner: Thank you very much.
Examiner: Mhm. Here you are.
Candidate: Thank you very much.
Examiner: Thank you.
Examiner: Good.
Examiner: So, we can start with your speaking test, the first part. In the first part of the exam, I will ask you some personal questions. First, I'd like to ask you about studying. What do you study?
Candidate: Right now, I'm studying three subjects: drama, music, and performing arts. So that's a combination of dance, music again, and certain type of of acting.
Examiner: Okay. Do you like that subject?
Candidate: I love these subjects very much because I actually didn't know which one to pick. I decided to go for the music first of all, and then I realized I also love theater studies as well. So then I realized I also love media, so I picked performing arts to get more involved.
Examiner: Okay. And what was your first day like in this subject?
Candidate: It was very exciting, to be honest with you because I was really struggling with mathematics and science and all these subjects that the school and the national curriculum really wanted us to study, and they said you have to have these qualifications, otherwise you cannot take further studies. So I thought it was very exciting to go ahead and pick these subjects that I feel I'm more comfortable with and that I like very much.
Examiner: Okay, very good. Now let's move on to talk about music. What's your favorite type of music?
Candidate: Oh, it's funny you should ask that because I happen to be a musician and I play the piano. So I love all sorts of genres if I'm going to talk about music. But to answer your question and pick one in particular, in fact, I'll pick two for you. I love classical music and new age, and also a mix of pop in between as well.
Examiner: Okay, very well. Can you sing?
Candidate: Uh, that's the embarrassing question that lots of people ask me, "Can I sing?" Well, I do sing in the choir sometimes, but I would never take the risk and be a solo singer. I prefer to be just the musician and play the piano or even take a second instrument.
Examiner: Okay, very well. Now let's talk about neighbors and neighborhood. Do you like your neighbors?
Candidate: To be honest with you, I have good neighbors and and bad neighbors. I don't want to name anybody, but some neighbors, they're just not very cooperative. If you want to have a bonfire in the garden. So on the left at the left-hand side of my my father's house, uh, we have Rosalin, so she's very nitpicky. She's always complaining a lot and we cannot turn the music up very much.
Examiner: Alright. And are your neighbors usually close to each other in your country?
Candidate: Not particularly. I don't think neighbors or people who live next to each other in the UK are particularly close, unless you have a very special friendship and atmosphere in the road. But you can find the odd kind person now and then.
Examiner: Okay. And what is your neighborhood like?
Candidate: Our neighborhood in North London is a very peaceful place. I would prefer to live there all the time if I'm going to compare that to Central London because it's it's suburban and we have lots of green areas. We have a a local park and you can sleep soundly at night without the noise of anything else.
Examiner: Great. Thank you very much. We are done with the first part of speaking test. Now we can move on to part two. In this part, I'm going to give you a topic and I would like you to talk about this topic for two minutes, but before that, you will have one minute to think about what you are going to say. Do you understand?
Candidate: Yes.
Examiner: Great, very good. Now I'll give you a paper and a cue card. You will have one minute to think about the topic, and you can make notes if you wish. Good. So here's your cue card and here's the paper.
Candidate: Thank you very much.
Examiner: And here's a pen.
Examiner: Good.
Candidate: Wonderful.
Examiner: So, I would like you to describe a quiz program or game show on TV that you like. Now, you will have one minute to think about the topic and your one minute starts right now.
Candidate: Okay.
Examiner: Okay, your one minute is over. And if you feel ready, you can talk about the topic for two minutes. Your two minutes starts right now.
Candidate: All right. So I've been asked to talk about a television quiz show that I like very much. I want to talk about uh Bruce Nolan's Generation Game. So it's a, it is a quiz game and basically it applies two families on the stage when they have a live audience. So these two groups, these two families basically they would have to get into games and do different activities and then they'll be scored at the very end. And I always found that very interesting because they get put in situations where they wouldn't know how to, for example, make pottery or how to act on the stage, depends what the activity is. Um, and we always watch this program. We found out about it from ITV. No advertising. ITV is our Channel 3 in the UK. And we just love to sit around the television and watch that together as a family. We find it most fun. So I enjoy the activities that they do. Like I said, they they get onto the stage, they have to do an acting game or they'll be maybe making a painting to see who could perform the painting better than the other. And I always like the way the presenter hosts the show. He's always very energetic and the way he addresses the candidates and then the way he talks to the audience, it's always very theatrical and very friendly at the same time. And then in between he he goes on about joking and uh trying to encourage other people to get up on the stage and get involved and sometimes he even picks on people in the audience. So it's a very, very fun show to watch. Another show I'd like to talk about is uh Cilla Black's Blind Date. And that's where she brings people on to actually match-make people, single people of course, and then if they pick the hidden candidate and they like what the other person is saying, then they'll choose that person to maybe go on holiday. That's that's the thing. They'll go on the trip and then they'll come back next week to...
Examiner: Thank you very much. Great. We are done with part two and your two minute is over now. We can now move on to part three. We've been talking about a quiz program or game show on TV that you like. Now I would like to ask you some questions related to this topic, okay?
Candidate: Okay.
Examiner: Great. So let's consider television. Do people in your country like to watch TV?
Candidate: Well, I consider my country, if I'm going to answer this question, I consider uh the nation that I come from to be a country very much involved with the media. I'll call it the mother of all media, the UK, because they created the BBC, they created the BBC radio many years ago. I think it was some time in the uh mid-20th century. So I think it's very very important. They have uh governmental uh channels, they also have lots of private channels and lots of people, plenty of people like to watch these channels. You can watch anything you want. You can view movies, TV series, soap operas, but nowadays obviously because of the internet and technology, people prefer to watch the same shows that our televisions are showing on their phones, maybe laptops, maybe Netflix, so that's a social media uh channel and everything. So they there might be a pay-per-view and they might want to watch a certain TV channel.
Examiner: Okay, great. Tell me about the types of programs that are generally on television in your country.
Candidate: Well, as I spoke about earlier in the in the previous part of this test, people love to watch uh quiz shows, I think a lot, because it's very challenging and the way they present these shows, it's it's very gripping. Not only do lots of people learn something, it could be a language-related show where there's something we have called Catchphrase, and many people love to watch that and improve their vocabulary. But uh there's plenty of entertainment on on our TV channels that many people like to look at.
Examiner: And how about you? Do you like such quiz shows on TV?
Candidate: I certainly do. I mentioned that earlier. And there's quite a few quiz shows that I would pick out. I would definitely pick Catchphrase and the previous one I spoke about uh Bruce Nolan's Generation Game because it's just very creative and this is something that will keep me involved and the shows are not too long either. They're about 25 minutes long or 30 minutes long and I think that's enough to sit down and watch a television quiz show.
Examiner: Okay. And why do some people like to watch TV on their computer?
Candidate: Well, that's a very debatable question if you ask me because now if you look at the way generations are shaping out to be in the 21st century, it's not like the old-fashioned days where we'd sit in front of a television as a family and watch too many shows. Many people like to do things individually, especially with the technology accessible. Like we have our laptops, we have tablets, and just walking around with our phones and being connected to the internet, it's a lot easier to access the kind of home entertainment that many people are looking for.
Examiner: Okay, very good. And what is the difference between young people and old people's favorite TV drama?
Candidate: Well, that's that's something I really wouldn't know what to answer because I don't actually know what young people are definitely watching in terms of drama and the same goes with the elderly group of people. But from, I can maybe sense a pattern of what they're watching. So if it's uh young people, they'll be probably watching a drama related to action, if it's we're talking about boys, uh males or men. If uh we're talking about girls, maybe they're the most likely to view romantic things, romantic TV series.
Examiner: And why do you think is that? Like, why do they like to watch romantic movies?
Candidate: I think lots of these issues are to do with hormones. I mean, I I don't like to be nitpicky and definitely generalize on all these things. But generally, girls love to watch uh TV series or movies that are romantic and they have some kind of a sweet angle towards it. Uh boys because they're they they tend to be more energetic and again, to do with the hormones, they love to watch action and be entertained with all that gripping stuff.
Examiner: Thank you very much. We are done with your speaking test for today. Now you can just relax and take a deep breath.
Candidate: Thanks.
Examiner: Yes, great, good. So, uh let's see what you did in your mock test of speaking for today. But before uh I just get into details of different criteria, what do you think about your performance?
Candidate: I thought I did okay. I maybe I could have used a even a stronger range of vocabulary, uh but I thought it was mostly related to the topics and I believe I answered the questions as you asked me.
Examiner: Yes, yes, that's totally right because Samson, what I loved about your speaking was a wide range of, as you said, vocabulary that you were using. So I would say that was enough, even more than enough, and I would just give you a very good score in your lexical resource. But if I just wanted to start with your fluency and coherence, what was really outstanding in your speaking is the flow of a speech you have. Like you do not stop when you are talking and you're very fluent while you are speaking English. And on the other hand, I didn't really notice any self-correction or self-repetition. You didn't repeat yourself. You were just uh using all the words and all the structures correctly, accurately, and that was that was really good. I couldn't really notice uh any effort to uh just keep on talking to me, so that was just wonderful. Maybe you had some hesitations a few, not many, but it was all about uh, you were just trying to come up with ideas and you know, when uh, you know what you want to say, what uh language you want to use, then these hesitations are okay. You are not looking for words, you were looking for ideas, and that was just wonderful. Something else about your fluency that was really good, uh was a good use of connectives and discourse markers. Like when I was asking you a question, you were just paraphrasing my question and using uh some boosters very naturally.
Candidate: It's a good thing to do, is it?
Examiner: Of course, it's a good thing to do. I loved the boosters you used. For example, in part one, uh you started one of your answers by saying, "I happen to be something" and then you gave me the answer. Or, "that's uh the embarrassing question I should answer." Or, "um not particularly," right? So you didn't give me a uh direct answer in the beginning, and that's great because...
Candidate: Of course, to buy time to actually answer the question.
Examiner: Exactly. It's not because who knows to how to answer all the questions. Some topics may be unfamiliar, right? How about you? Was it familiar to you? Because I, from what I understood, you had a lot to say about the questions.
Candidate: Thank you very much.
Examiner: You're welcome. Do you have any questions or problems?
Candidate: Uh, no, I think you basically covered everything. So I really appreciate it and
Examiner: You're welcome.
Candidate: Thank you for your time.
Examiner: Thank you. Okay.
Examiner Feedback: Okay so yeah I have good examples of what you did here yeah the only problem I have is with the pace of your speech it's a bit fast sometimes it's a bit fast you managed to speak with that pace and you answered all the questions very well but sometimes when you speak too fast you may get a bit stressed and it is more likely to make some grammatical mistakes and the pronunciation of some words might not might not be clear if you speak very fast so maybe you can just work on that a little and I know you have a lot of information but sometimes it was too much you know I needed a bit slightly tone it down exactly and so yeah that's all about it and your grammatical range as the last thing I want to talk about you used a range of complex structures if I want to give you examples for example you were using conditional sentences very well relative clauses compound sentences and I could hear some adverbs you started some of your sentences for example by saying generally definitely you know and you were talking about the different issues so that was really good and in part two what I realized was that you covered all the bullet points which is just terrific but after like you covered the two minutes but after uh like you had like 10 seconds or 20 seconds left and you kind of ran out of words so you went off the topic and you started talking about another show right that's right because I didn't I thought it's good to complete the two minutes and keep the flow of speech you should it's a good thing to do exactly because you had a lot of information about the previous one but you you didn't elaborate on the topic it was not like you you were just giving some information so I had to just move on to another topic to just feel exactly and you didn't stop talking so that was really good you went off the topic and you didn't stop talking the same thing happened in part three like in question number four you said that's something I really wouldn't know you didn't have an answer to the question no I didn't but you didn't stop no I didn't stop because you have to address the question I thought so I'll just you know from a different angle go into the idea and start answering the question okay great yes that's totally right okay yeah I have good examples of what you did here yeah the only problem I have is with the pace of your speech it's a bit fast sometimes it's a bit fast you managed to speak with that pace and you answered all the questions very well but sometimes when you speak too fast you may get a bit stressed and it is more likely to make some grammatical mistakes and the pronunciation of some words might not might not be clear if you speak very fast so maybe you can just work on that a little and I know you have a lot of information but sometimes it was too much you know I needed a bit slightly tone it down exactly and so yeah that's all about it and your grammatical range as the last thing I want to talk about you used a range of complex structures if I want to give you examples for example you were using conditional sentences very well relative clauses compound sentences and I could hear some adverbs you started some of your sentences for example by saying generally definitely you know and you were talking about the different issues so that was really good and in part two what I realized was that you covered all the bullet points which is just terrific but after like you you covered the two minutes but after uh like you had like 10 seconds or 20 seconds left and you kind of ran out of words so you went off the topic and you started talking about another show right that's right because I didn't I thought it's good to complete the two minutes and keep the flow of speech you should it's a good thing to do exactly because you had a lot of information about the previous one but you you didn't elaborate on the topic it was not like you you were just giving some information so I had to just move on to another topic to just feel exactly and you didn't stop talking so that was really good you went off the topic and you didn't stop talking the same thing happened in part three like in question number four you said that's something I really wouldn't know you didn't have an answer to the question no I didn't but you didn't stop no I didn't stop because you have to address the question I thought so I'll just you know from a different angle go into the idea and start answering the question okay great yes that's totally right